# Scalability and Security

Arcube's platform is built to scale and secure ancillary services
through a robust architecture powered by **AWS Lambda**, **AWS API
Gateway**, and **Azure MongoDB Atlas**. These technologies ensure that
the platform can handle high volumes of traffic, maintain operational
reliability, and provide strong security for sensitive data. Below, we
outline how each component contributes to Arcube's scalability and
security, along with the best practices implemented to ensure high
performance and data protection.

## Scalability

**AWS Lambda**

Arcube leverages **AWS Lambda** for serverless computing, ensuring
that the platform automatically scales to meet demand without the need
for manual intervention. Lambda's inherent scalability allows Arcube to
handle high traffic volumes efficiently, processing millions of requests
with zero downtime.

-   **Auto-scaling**: Lambda automatically scales up or down based on
    > incoming traffic, ensuring that Arcube's platform remains
    > responsive under varying loads. As traffic spikes, Lambda
    > functions are invoked in parallel, maintaining high performance
    > even during peak times.

-   **Concurrency Control**: Lambda's concurrency feature ensures that
    > multiple requests can be processed simultaneously, providing
    > seamless scaling across thousands of concurrent users.

**AWS API Gateway**

**AWS API Gateway** is the gateway for managing, monitoring, and
scaling Arcube's API services. API Gateway supports automatic scaling,
ensuring that Arcube's APIs can handle any amount of incoming traffic
without performance degradation.

-   **Throttling and Rate Limiting**: API Gateway is configured with
    > rate-limiting and throttling policies to manage incoming traffic
    > and prevent abuse, ensuring a reliable experience for all users.

-   **Caching**: API Gateway implements caching to reduce backend load
    > and improve response times for frequently accessed data, enabling
    > faster processing and a better user experience.

-   **Edge-Optimized APIs**: Arcube takes advantage of **edge-optimized
    > APIs** through API Gateway, ensuring low-latency access to APIs
    > for users across the globe by utilizing **Amazon CloudFront**.

**Azure MongoDB Atlas**

Arcube uses **Azure MongoDB Atlas** for its data storage needs,
taking advantage of the platform's **auto-scaling capabilities** and
**global distribution** to ensure that data is always available and
quickly accessible.

-   **Global Distribution**: MongoDB Atlas offers **global clusters**
    > that enable data to be distributed across multiple regions. This
    > minimizes latency for users worldwide and ensures high
    > availability of data.

-   **Auto-Scaling**: MongoDB Atlas automatically scales the database
    > based on workload demands, allowing Arcube to manage growing data
    > needs without manual intervention.

-   **Backup and Recovery**: MongoDB Atlas provides **automated
    > backups** and **point-in-time recovery** to ensure that data is
    > safe and can be quickly restored in the event of any issues.

## Security

**AWS Lambda Security** 

** Security is built into the foundation of **AWS Lambda** with several
built-in features that ensure data protection and minimize
vulnerabilities.

-   **IAM Roles and Policies**: Each Lambda function is granted the
    > **minimum permissions** required to interact with AWS resources,
    > following the principle of **least privilege**. This ensures that
    > each function operates securely and does not have unnecessary
    > access to other resources.

-   **VPC Integration**: Arcube runs Lambda functions within a **Virtual
    > Private Cloud (VPC)**, ensuring secure access to internal
    > resources and preventing external exposure of sensitive data.

-   **Environment Variables Encryption**: Sensitive information such as
    > **API keys** and **credentials** are stored in **Lambda
    > environment variables** and encrypted using **AWS KMS (Key
    > Management Service)**, ensuring that all sensitive data is
    > securely managed.

-   **Logging and Monitoring**: Arcube uses **Amazon CloudWatch** to
    > monitor Lambda function execution and logs, ensuring that any
    > issues or suspicious activity are detected in real time.

**AWS API Gateway Security**

Arcube has implemented **AWS API Gateway** as the primary entry point
for managing all external API requests, with advanced security features
to safeguard the platform and its data.

-   **Authentication & Authorization**: Arcube uses **AWS Cognito**,
    > **Lambda authorizers**, and **IAM roles** to authenticate and
    > authorize all API requests. This ensures that only authorized
    > clients can access the platform's resources.

-   **WAF (Web Application Firewall)**: Arcube integrates **AWS WAF**
    > with API Gateway to filter out malicious traffic, such as **SQL
    > injections** or **cross-site scripting (XSS)** attacks, before it
    > reaches the application.

-   **Rate Limiting**: API Gateway enforces **rate limiting** and
    > **throttling** to control the number of requests a user can make
    > in a given time period, protecting against DoS (Denial of Service)
    > attacks and ensuring fair usage across all clients.

-   **Access Control**: Arcube defines strict **API Gateway Resource
    > Policies**, specifying which IP addresses and VPCs can access the
    > APIs, further tightening security.

**Azure MongoDB Atlas Security** 

**Azure MongoDB Atlas** provides robust security features to protect
sensitive data and ensure compliance with data protection regulations.

-   **Encryption**: All sensitive data in **MongoDB Atlas** is
    > **encrypted at rest** using **AES-256 encryption** and **in
    > transit** using **TLS**. This guarantees that sensitive
    > information is protected both while stored and during
    > transmission.

-   **Role-Based Access Control (RBAC)**: Arcube uses **RBAC** in
    > MongoDB Atlas to control access to specific data based on user
    > roles, ensuring that only authorized personnel or services can
    > access sensitive data.

-   **Network Isolation**: MongoDB Atlas provides **network isolation**
    > using **IP whitelisting**, ensuring that only trusted IPs can
    > connect to the database, adding an extra layer of security.

-   **Auditing**: Arcube enables **audit logging** to track all access
    > to MongoDB Atlas, ensuring full transparency and allowing for
    > quick detection of any unauthorized access.

**Best Practices for Security**:

1.  **End-to-End Encryption**:

    -   Arcube enforces **encryption** of sensitive data throughout its
        > lifecycle, ensuring both **data in transit** and **data at
        > rest** are encrypted.

2.  **Access Control**:

    -   Arcube adheres to **least privilege access** principles,
        > ensuring that services and users only have the minimum
        > necessary permissions to perform their tasks.

3.  **Secure API Access**:

    -   **AWS API Gateway** and **AWS Lambda** are configured to ensure
        > that only **authenticated and authorized requests** are
        > allowed, preventing unauthorized access to sensitive data or
        > services.

4.  **Constant Monitoring**:

    -   Arcube continuously monitors system performance and security
        > metrics using **CloudWatch** and **AWS GuardDuty**, and is
        > alerted to any potential security breaches or performance
        > degradation.

## Data Location

Arcube provides the flexibility to store tenant-specific data at various
geographical locations, ensuring compliance with regional data storage
regulations. Each tenant can configure their data storage location
according to their specific requirements, including ensuring that
passenger data is stored in a particular country or region.

If a tenant organization is subject to specific regulations, such as
data sovereignty laws, which require passenger data to be stored in a
designated country or region, Arcube's built-in **tenant-specific
location storage** feature can be utilized to ensure that these
requirements are met. This ensures that the organization remains
compliant with local data protection laws, such as **GDPR** (General
Data Protection Regulation) in the EU or **CCPA** (California Consumer
Privacy Act) in the United States.

Arcube is committed to supporting tenant-specific data storage
configurations, offering the flexibility needed to adapt to the evolving
regulatory landscape while safeguarding the privacy and security of
passenger data.

## Conclusion

Arcube's platform is designed with **scalability and security** at its
core, utilizing **AWS Lambda**, **AWS API Gateway**, and **Azure MongoDB
Atlas** to ensure high performance and data protection. These
technologies work seamlessly together to handle varying traffic loads,
protect sensitive information, and ensure continuous availability. With
industry best practices implemented across all layers, Arcube provides a
robust and secure platform for delivering personalized ancillary
services at scale.

Having read the above, you should have a good understanding regarding
what and how Arcube is able to integrate with your system in order to
increase your revenue. As a next step, please contact us in order to get
access to our technical integration guide which is more developer
focused and should give your technical department all the details needed
in order to start with the integration.
